= Wayground

Web content framework.
http://wayground.ca/

A somewhat generic platform for handling web content management (CMS), contact relation management (CRM), democracy tools, calendaring, open data, content aggregation, etc.

Grant Neufeld
http://grantneufeld.ca/


== Release Notes

=== Version 0.0.1 - February 16, 2011

All the core testing and metrics infrastructure setup and tested.

=== Version ??? - Started December 2010

Redoing my core application framework in Rails 3.

Doing this as a fresh project so I can experiment and get it right before rolling it into my active applications.


== Installation

=== Prerequisites

You must have ruby installed (at least version 1.8.7).

Make sure your ruby gem system is up to date:
 > sudo gem update --system

Make sure you have Ruby on Rails installed:
 > sudo gem install rails

You need a suitable web server installed (such as Apache, with the Passenger extension for ruby).

To install Passenger for running ruby websites with Apache:
 > sudo gem install passenger

=== Setup

Put the entire project directory where you want it on your web server’s file system.

Copy config/database.default.yml to config/database.yml and edit that file to use whatever database backend(s) you want for your installation. The default will use SQLite, which is okay for small projects, but you’ll likely want to switch to something like PostgreSQL or MySQL.

Copy config/initializers/secret_token.default.rb to config/initializers/secret_token.rb, then edit that file to use your own secret key.

From within the project directory, run the following command to ensure you have the required gems (and the required versions of those gems):
 > sudo bundle update

If you are using a database other than SQLite, setup appropriate permissions and such, as per what you put in config/database.yml

For MySQL on Mac OS X, you will need to do a special configuration when installing the mysql gem:
 > sudo ARCHFLAGS="-arch i386 -arch x86_64" gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-dir=/usr/local --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

Run this command to setup the required data tables in your database:
 > rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

Set your web server’s configuration to point to the project directory (either for the server as a whole, or for the specific domain you want to be served). Restart your web server, if necessary, for it to start serving your new site.

Go to your new site and follow the “Sign Up” link to create your first user account on the site. The first user will automatically have admin privileges and can assign privileges to other users.

=== Customizing

The overall look of the site is defined by the html template: app/views/application.html.erb

and by the stylesheets in: public/stylesheets/

Be careful when editing .erb files that you don’t break the ruby code embedded in them. The ruby code in .erb files is wrapped in “<% … %>”.


== References

Portions of this code are taken from, or modified from, other open source projects:

* User access cucumber feature tests derived from Clearance http://github.com/thoughtbot/clearance
